Add instructions to install PHP debug symbols (#11314)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/setup/php.md

In the unusual event of an application crash caused by the PHP tracer, typically because of a segmentation fault, the best thing to do is obtain a core dump or a Valgrind trace and contact Datadog support.

### Install debug symbols

> For the core dumps to be readable, debug symbols for the PHP binaries have to be installed in the system that runs PHP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the core dumps to be readable, debug symbols for the PHP binaries have to be installed on the system that runs PHP.
```

> To check if debug symbols are installed for PHP or PHP-FPM, the easiest approach is to use `gdb`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if debug symbols are installed for PHP or PHP-FPM, use `gdb`.
```

Install `gdb`:

```
apt|yum install -y gdb
```

Run `gdb` with the binary of interest. For example for PHP-FPM:

```
gdb php-fpm
```

If the `gdb` output contains a line similar to the text below, then debug symbols are already installed.

```
...
Reading symbols from php-fpm...Reading symbols from /usr/lib/debug/path/to/some/file.debug...done.
...
```

> If the `gdb` output contains a line similar to the text below, then debug symbols have to be installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `gdb` output contains a line similar to the text below, then debug symbols need to be installed:
```

```
...
Reading symbols from php-fpm...(no debugging symbols found)...done.
...
```

> Instructions follow in the next sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
unnecessary text

#### Centos

Install package `yum-utils` that provides the program `debuginfo-install`:

```
yum install -y yum-utils
```

> Find the right package name for your PHP binaries, it can vary depending on the PHP installation method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the package name for your PHP binaries, it can vary depending on the PHP installation method:
```

```
yum list installed | grep php
```

Install debug symbols. For example for package `php-fpm`:

```
debuginfo-install -y php-fpm
```

> **Note**: if the repository that provides the PHP binaries is not enabled by default, it can be enabled when running the `debuginfo-install` command. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If the repository that provides the PHP binaries is not enabled by default, it can be enabled when running the `debuginfo-install` command. For example:
```

```
debuginfo-install --enablerepo=remi-php74 -y php-fpm
```

#### Debian

##### PHP installed from the Sury Debian DPA

If PHP was installed from the [Sury Debian DPA][13], debug symbols are already available from the DPA. For example, for PHP-FPM 7.2:

```
apt update
apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbgsym
```

##### PHP installed from a different package

The Debian project maintains a wiki page with [instructions to install debug symbols][14].

Edit the file `/etc/apt/sources.list`:

```
# ... leave here all the pre-existing packages

# add a `deb` deb http://deb.debian.org/debian-debug/ $RELEASE-debug main
# For example for buster
deb http://deb.debian.org/debian-debug/ buster-debug main
```

Update `apt`:

```
apt update
```

Try canonical package names for debug symbols, first. For example, if the package name is `php7.2-fpm` try:

```
apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbgsym

# if the above does not work

apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbg
```

> In case debug symbols cannot be found yet, it is possible to use the utility tool `find-dbgsym-packages`. Install the binary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If debug symbols cannot be found, use the utility tool `find-dbgsym-packages`. Install the binary:
```

```
apt install -y debian-goodies
```

Attempt finding debug symbols from either the full path to the binary or the process id of a running process:

```
find-dbgsym-packages /usr/sbin/php-fpm7.2
```

> Install the resulting package name, if any has been found:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the resulting package name, if found:
```

```
apt install -y php7.2-fpm-{package-name-returned-by-find-dbgsym-packages}
```

#### Ubuntu

##### PHP installed from `ppa:ondrej/php`

> If PHP was installed from the [`ppa:ondrej/php`][15] edit the apt source file `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/ondrej-*.list` adding the `main/debug` component to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If PHP was installed from the [`ppa:ondrej/php`][15], edit the apt source file `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/ondrej-*.list` by adding the `main/debug` component.
```

Before:

```deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/ondrej/php/ubuntu <version> main```

After:

```deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/ondrej/php/ubuntu <version> main main/debug```

Update and install the debug symbols. For example, for PHP-FPM 7.2:

```
apt update
apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbgsym
```
##### PHP installed from a different package

> Find the right package name for your PHP binaries, it can vary depending on the PHP installation method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the package name for your PHP binaries, it can vary depending on the PHP installation method:
```

```
apt list --installed | grep php
```

> Note that in some cases `php-fpm` can be a metapackage that refers to the real package, for example `php7.2-fpm` in case of PHP-FPM 7.2. In this case the package name is the latter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: In some cases `php-fpm` can be a metapackage that refers to the real package, for example `php7.2-fpm` in case of PHP-FPM 7.2. In this case the package name is the latter.
```

Try canonical package names for debug symbols, first. For example, if the package name is `php7.2-fpm` try:

```
apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbgsym

# if the above does not work

apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbg
```

> In case the above `-dbg` and `-dbgsym` packages cannot be found, you might have to enable the `ddebs` repositories. Detailed information about how to install debug symbols from the `ddebs` can be found in the [official documentation][16].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `-dbg` and `-dbgsym` packages cannot be found, enable the `ddebs` repositories. Detailed information about how to [install debug symbols][16] from the `ddebs` can be found in the Ubuntu documentation.
```

> For example, for ubuntu 18.04 and newer, enable the `ddebs` repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, for Ubuntu 18.04+, enable the `ddebs` repo:
```

```
echo "deb http://ddebs.ubuntu.com $(lsb_release -cs) main restricted universe multiverse" | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ddebs.list

echo "deb http://ddebs.ubuntu.com $(lsb_release -cs)-updates main restricted universe multiverse" | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ddebs.list
```

> Import the signing key (make sure the [signing key is correct][17] from the official documentation page linked above):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import the signing key (make sure the [signing key is correct][17]):
```

```
apt install ubuntu-dbgsym-keyring
apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys <SIGNING KEY FROM UBUNTU DOCUMENTATION>
apt update
```

Try againg the canonical package names for debug symbols. For example, if the package name is `php7.2-fpm` try:

```
apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbgsym

# if the above does not work

apt install -y php7.2-fpm-dbg
```

> In case debug symbols cannot be found yet, it is possible to use the utility tool `find-dbgsym-packages`. Install the binary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case debug symbols cannot be found, use the utility tool `find-dbgsym-packages`. Install the binary:
```

```
apt install -y debian-goodies
```

Attempt finding debug symbols from either the full path to the binary or the process id of a running process:

```
find-dbgsym-packages /usr/sbin/php-fpm7.2
```

> Install the resulting package name, if any has been found:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the resulting package name, if found:
```
